So let's start by fixing these errors.
We get these errors because we get other parts in our posts service where we actually try to pass this
updated array of posts back to our components.
Now we don't really need to do this here
and I mentioned this earlier. Since we navigate to our post list component from another component, we
are guaranteed to reload that post list component,
therefore ngOnInit will execute and will fetch new posts anyways.
So now we can go to posts service and simply remove everything but that navigation action in the addPost
method and the same in the updatePost method.
It was nice to learn how this works but it's now not required anymore because again, we go to a page
where we fetch the latest version
anyways. For deleting, it's a bit different,
we do that from the list of posts and therefore, we actually will delete a post which we just were
able to see,
hence we definitely need to re-fetch data here
and the most elegant way of doing this is to entirely remove the subscribe method here and simply
return this HTTP call or this configured HTTP call and then subscribe in the post list component,
here in onDelete.
There we now get that observable and we can therefore subscribe to it
and here we will actually get back or we'll be able to react to the response which is executed whenever
the post was deleted
and here, I simply want to execute this post service
getPosts to re-fetch my posts.
This of course means here I again need to pass my current page size, so post per page and my current
page
but that's all data we have in this component.
So now we're fetching new posts
once we successfully deleted a post and this is a great step forward.
I of course now
also want to show loading spinner once we start this deletion process.
Now we're not done yet though, we get an error up here where we do subscribe to our subject and here,
we're still waiting for data which is an array of posts
but since we just updated our subject, we're actually getting back a Javascript object now, an object
with a post property and a post count property.
Therefore in the post list component, I will rename the argument to post data because this now seems
to be more appropriate,
it's more than just the posts and the type will be a Javascript object which has a post property which
is of type post array and which also has a post count property, as defined here,
post count has to be the same name.
So here we get the post count property which will be a number
and this means down there where we store the posts,
I will store post data posts. And with that in place, we get the errors removed,
now let's also use the post count
then. We get our total post property here already and I will set this to zero initially
now and here, I will then set this total posts equal to post count because we now really got that information,
excuse me, to post data post count
because we now really got that information from our back-end. And now with that added, let's go back, let's
reload our application and it's again failing on the back-end,
let's see what's wrong, document is not defined.
So this seems to be just a typo in the posts.js
file,
yes in my first then query, I'm trying to store document in fetch posts but it's documents,
so let's add an s there, restart the server, reload the Angular app, now this looks better.
Now you see we're displaying one and two, so one to two posts of three.
Now if I go to the last page, we're displaying three of three.
If I go to five, then we're displaying on all three,
now we only got one and if I let's say take two, for the first page and I delete one of them, then
it correctly updates and now we only got two total posts,
I can't switch between pages and it's showing these two posts. So this all seems to work now
and with that, we get pagination implemented with the help of Angular and Mongoose Express.